---
title: "A's New Stadium Fails"
date: 06/07/2023
author: "Miles Wallace"
description: "Uncertainty Looms as Athletics' Las Vegas Stadium Deal Falters in Legislative Session."
tags: ["Oakland Athletics", "Las Vegas", "Joe Lombardo", "Clark County", "Nevada", "Major League Baseball", "Nevada taxpayers", "Legislative", "Nevada", "bill",  ]
#font: ""
---
## "Uncertainty Looms as Athletics' Las Vegas Stadium Deal Falters in Legislative Session."
#### _06/07/2023_ 
____
The hopes of bringing the Oakland A's to Las Vegas suffered a setback as the stadium deal faltered during the final hours of the legislative session. Lawmakers in Nevada decided not to move forward with a bill that aimed to provide up to $380 million in public financing for the construction of a new baseball stadium in Las Vegas. While Governor Joe Lombardo expressed support for the project, it would require him to call for a special legislative session to reconsider the funding package. However, as of now, neither the governor's office nor legislative leadership have confirmed the possibility of a special session.

The failure of the stadium bill to advance in the legislative session follows a tentative agreement on public financing announced last month by Governor Lombardo and other state and local leaders. However, Democratic legislative leaders were cautious, stating that the measure needed thorough vetting before moving forward. While approval of public financing terms during a special session would be a step forward, it wouldn't guarantee the A's relocation to Las Vegas. The team would still need approval from Major League Baseball owners, as well as secure financing for the remaining $1.5 billion required for the development.

The stadium proposal was introduced in mid-May, and the A's had hired lobbyists to garner support for their project. Initially, the team had reached a "binding agreement" with Red Rock Resorts to purchase land, but later shifted focus to the location of the Tropicana resort on the Las Vegas Strip. Under the proposed bill, public financing would be capped at $380 million, including tax credits and bonds issued by Clark County. Critics have raised concerns about publicly funded stadiums, citing research that shows they are not beneficial to taxpayers. However, proponents argue that Las Vegas's tourism-driven economy makes it an exception.

The bill also included provisions for establishing a tax entertainment district, where all tax revenues generated by the stadium would be used to repay the public funds. Additionally, the stadium property would be exempt from property taxes. Importantly, the bill is not specific to the A's, meaning other Major League Baseball teams or even an expansion team could potentially take advantage of the public financing terms if the bill becomes law. However, as of the updated information, the bill did not pass out of the Legislature.