---
title: "Admits Wagner's Connection"
date: 06/28/2023
author: "Miles Wallace"
description: "Russian State Admits Wagner's Connection."
tags: ["Russian government", "Dmitry Utkin", "Wagner Group", "Minerals", "Europe", "sanctions", "Sudan", "Central African Republic", "Syria", "Libya", "FSB", "GRU", "Ukraine", "Bakmut", "Volada", "Tokmak", "Novokal'ka", "Nipper River", "Antonovsky Bridge", ]
---
## "Admits Wagner's Connection."
#### _06/28/2023_ 
____
In June, the Russian government officially acknowledged that Wagner, a private military company, is an arm of the Russian state and receives approximately a billion dollars annually in funding. Wagner was established by Dmitry Utkin in 2013-2014, preceding the Donbass War, where Russian forces to instigate conflict on foreign soil. The Russian government benefited from the legal separation between Wagner and the state, allowing it to engage in various conflicts worldwide, often committing war crimes. Consequently, Wagner faced sanctions from the United States, European Union, Australia, Japan and other countries. However, this separation has now been dismantled, as Vladimir Putin declared Wagner as part of the Russian state. This admission has significant implications, as the assets of both the Russian state and Wagner can now be targeted and seized to compensate for their actions. Mineral concessions, including lucrative gold mines, granted to Wagner as compensation are now uncertain. The admission is expected to anger Europe and trigger further punitive sanctions against Russia.

The change in Wagner's status also affects its international operations. The diminished legal separation allows for the pursuit of both private and public assets connected to Wagner and the Russian state. As a result, Wagner's economic position will likely be dismantled in a relatively short time, especially if governments in countries where Wagner is accused of war crimes or neighboring regions shift power. Countries such as Sudan, the Central African Republic, Syria and Libya could see their military presence wrapped up. Additionally, recent developments in Russia, including an attempted coup, further contribute to the decline of Wagner's international capacity. Wagner troops are now required to pledge loyalty to the Russian state and hand over heavy equipment to the Russian military. Moreover, potential purges of Wagner personnel by the security services, such as the FSB and the GRU, are anticipated, considering their power center lies within these institutions rather than the Russian military. This overall situation suggests a reduction in Wagner's ability to function internationally, potentially leading to its winding down by the end of the year.

Switching gears, regarding the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, there have been recent developments on the ground. Ukraine has capitalized on the turmoil in Russia by expanding its pressure across multiple areas. The Ukrainian forces have advanced in six major areas, including Bakmut in the North, Volada, Tokmak and Novokal'ka. They have successfully established a bridgehead after crossing the Nipper River and the Antonovsky Bridge. Russian counter-attacks have not been entirely effective, and the Ukrainian forces are exploiting the situation to widen their front and identify weaknesses in the Russian defensive structure. It is worth noting that the Wagner group, comprising up to 25% of the Russian frontline force, has withdrawn for rest and reorganization. Their absence from the counter-attacks weakens the Russian reinforcement process. The whereabouts of Wagner's leader, Dmitry Utkin, remain unclear, but he has not given up and continues to claim that the events in Russia were not a coup. Despite these circumstances, various individuals and factions are maneuvering to exploit the situation, with some considering using Wagner for their own interests. Utkin's fate and the future of Wagner remain uncertain.