---
title: "Putin's Power Play"
date: 09/03/2023
author: "Miles Wallace"
description: "Putin's Power Play."
tags: ["Vladimir Putin", "Foreign Intelligence Service of the Russian Federation (SVR)", "Federal Protective Service (FSO)", "Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB)", "Presidential Security Service", "Federal Security Service (MVD)", "Russian Armed Forces", "Wagner Group", "Erik Prince", "Blackwater", "Yevgeny Prigozhin", "Dmitry Utkin", "Anton Yelizarov", "Xi Jinping", ]
#font: ""
---
## "Putin's Power Play."
#### _09/03/2023_  
____
After ascending to the presidency, Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin swiftly consolidated his power by orchestrating a series of strategic moves within Russia's security apparatus. He took the Foreign Intelligence Service of the Russian Federation (SVR), Federal Protective Service (FSO), Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB), Presidential Security Service, Federal Security Service (MVD) and Russian Armed Forces under his wing. Also, expanding their roles and absorbing other security agencies into the FSB.

One of Putin's notable actions was directing the FSB to target oligarchs who refused to pledge their loyalty to him. Simultaneously, he used the FSB to investigate rival politicians while resorting to the creation of fabricated charges against numerous human rights activists, journalists and dissidents. This aggressive approach allowed Putin to amass substantial power during the 2000s. Oligarchs were lining up to bribe Putin. “Controlling the money, finding sources of money was absolutely essential to maintaining his hold on power, continuing to buy off elites." (Anthony Blinken) Putin is at the top right now.  

Putin's ambition extended beyond just the FSB. He elevated all other security services, effectively creating a new layer within the Russian state. Also, complementing the military and the extensive Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD) moreover. This move aimed to bring Russia's multitude of spies, police officers and soldiers under his influence. Besides that, Russian hackers are so elite and the Kremlin wants more hackers today. Berserk Bear, Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear were in U.S. government servers leading up to 2016. "That they dub 'Cozy Bear' and 'Fancy Bear', one of them has been in the servers for a year. Another one has been in there for the last couple of months." (Julia Ioffe) It was brutal for the Clinton election.  

It was unsurprising when Putin allowed the formation of the Wagner Group aka PMC Wager around 2014, despite its technical illegality under Russian law. The leaders were Yevgeny Prigozhin and Dmitry Utkin. Wagner quickly became one of Putin's most valuable tools for advancing Russian interests abroad. The militia played a pivotal role in the Russian military's invasion of Ukraine in 2014 and its involvement in the Syrian conflict starting in 2015. PMC Wagner had offices in twenty African countries. That was uncanny. On top of that, Erik Prince, founder of Blackwater private military company, pursued to supply services to the Wagner Group in its assignments in Libya and Mozambique. We know that Prigozhin and Utkin are out of the picture, so it's up in the air now for the Wagner Group leader. Nevertheless, Anton Yelizarov, his position is already the most senior now. I regress to Vladmir Putin's story.

Putin is seeing a way out of the war. Tension in the United States to rip aid to Ukraine, whether Joe Biden is re-elected next year or Donald Trump is the new leader. Other than that, Western allies have consistently advocated for a convention with a sharp focus on cybercrime, coupled with a steadfast commitment to upholding human rights obligations. In contrast, the authoritarian bloc has employed rhetoric that seeks to legitimize practices such as surveillance and repression under the banner of preserving digital "sovereignty" and combatting perceived "extremism" or "harmful information." Although the West has made efforts to refine the convention's draft. While a flawlessly crafted convention may not completely deter authoritarian regimes from engaging in cyberattacks or suppressing their populations, it is imperative that the international community does not relinquish control of cyberspace to leaders like Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping. Western nations must collaborate strategically to counteract any manipulative tactics employed by such regimes, ensuring that the vision of a free and open internet remains accessible to people worldwide.

Putin is a tyrant. Putin is the master of violence. "We always misunderstood him in the sense that we misunderstood Russia as a kind of failed transition to democracy. Russia isn’t that. Russia was an alternative to democracy which pretended to be a democracy and which functioned in its foreign policy by trying to destroy the democracies which were more real than it was." (Timothy Snyder) That said, Putin is always going to get money from the oligarchs because he set Government of Russia structure up in 2000. Russian TV news is 100% Kremlin propaganda. Furthermore, Putin's resistance is in prison or hidden or dead. 