---
title: "Sudan's Escalating Civil War"
date: 05/29/2023
author: "Miles Wallace"
description: "Sudan's Escalating Civil War."
tags: ["Sudan", "Khartoum", "civil war", "a million people displaced", "Sudan's geopolitical", "Suez Canal", "Africa", "Britain", "Omar al-Bashir", "Darfur region", "Sudan's oil reserves", "Sudanese Army", "Rapid Support Forces (RSF)", "General Abdel Fatah al-Burhan", "Hemeti", "United Arab Emirates (UAE)", "Nile River", "Wagner Group", "Russia", "Egypt", "Horn of Africa", "China", "Red Sea", "General Khalifa Haftar", "Libya",  ]
---
## "Sudan's Escalating Civil War"
#### _05/29/2023_ 
____
Sudan is currently experiencing a rise in violence in its capital, Khartoum, which is pushing the country towards a civil war. The conflict involves two rival generals and their armies vying for control of the city of Hakthun, with the battle spreading across the country. The situation has led to a refugee crisis, with around a million people displaced in the aftermath of the intense fighting that erupted a month ago. The international community is closely monitoring the conflict due to Sudan's geopolitical significance, particularly its location near the Suez Canal and its importance in the Horn of Africa. Foreign countries are preparing to intervene to safeguard their interests and influence Sudan's future.

Sudan has a history of conflict since its independence, with the first civil war beginning before the country gained independence from Britain. These conflicts have primarily been between the North and the South, centered around control over representation and valuable resources like oil and gold. Sudan's conflicts have attracted external involvement from countries seeking to support the side that aligns with their interests. The current conflict can be traced back to the actions of Omar al-Bashir, a military dictator who seized power in the late 1980s. Al-Bashir assembled militias to secure his position and used them to suppress opposition, particularly in the Darfur region, leading to mass displacement and loss of life.

In 2011, Sudan's decades-long civil war between the North and the South concluded, resulting in the formal division of the country. South Sudan became an independent nation, taking with it 75 percent of Sudan's oil reserves, which had a severe impact on Sudan's economy. Inflation soared, food prices rose and al-Bashir struggled to maintain his system of bribes and tributes to political elites and the military. In 2019, the Sudanese people took to the streets to protest against the dictatorship, and al-Bashir was eventually overthrown by a coalition of the Sudanese Army and the Rapid Support Forces , RSF. However, the military leaders reneged on their promise to hand over power to civilians, leading to continued abuse and massacres of protesters.

Tensions escalated in December 2022 when General Abdel Fatah al-Burhan, the leader of the Sudanese Armed Forces, SAF, agreed to return control to civilians but wanted the RSF to merge with the official army. This move was opposed by RSF leader Hemeti, who has amassed significant wealth and influence through his command over the RSF and control of the gold market and borders. Hemeti refused to let his lucrative military business empire be absorbed by the government, leading him to plot the overthrow of the government and take control himself. The conflict erupted in April 2023 when Hemeti's forces attacked al-Burhan's residence, triggering a larger battle for control of the country. Also, Wagner Group is in Sudan and an alliance with RSF, but Wagner Group is correspondingly in it for money and Sudan's resources.

The international community is closely watching Sudan's conflict due to its geopolitical importance. Sudan sits along the Nile River, which is crucial for Egypt, and it has ports, Port of Sudan and Port Suakin, near the Suez Canal and the Horn of Africa, key choke points for global trade. Powerful countries have vested interests in Sudan's resources, including gold, and have been vying for military bases and influence in the region. General Khalifa Haftar, Libyan warlord, close to the hip for Hemedti, as war drags on in Sudan. Countries such as the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Egypt, Qatar and Turkey have supported different factions in the conflict based on their strategic and economic interests. The situation has the potential to escalate into a proxy war, with regional and foreign powers fueling the conflict for their own gain. Yemen is in a civil war as well, but I'm not going to delve into Yemen's war, just the concept of those locations and a broader approach to control of the land and resources. Red Sea is a major hub of getting in and getting out.

Within this complex landscape, international players like China and Russia have been closely observing the situation, eagerly waiting for an opportunity to exert their influence. Both countries have economic and strategic interests in Sudan, including access to valuable resources such as oil. Meanwhile, the United States has been providing assistance to Saudi Arabia and the UAE, who have been involved in the Yemeni civil war. This support has primarily been in the form of weapons sales and logistical support.

In the midst of this power struggle, the Sudanese people suffer, with civilians being displaced and facing devastating consequences. The conflict threatens to derail the progress made by the democracy movement that successfully removed al-Bashir from power. The current conflict serves the interests of a few individuals at the top who benefit from a broken system.
